
 Newman, J. & S. Rice. 
2006. 
 Transitivity schemas of English EAT and DRINK in the BNC. In: 


<name> Diessel, H. & M. Tomasello. 
<date> 2005. 
<title> Particle placement in early child language: A multifactorial analysis. 
<pub Info> Corpus Linguistics and Linguistic Theory 1.1:89-112.

<Type> Academic
<source> Corpus Linguistcs

Summerized by J.D.
Particle placement in early child language: A multifactorial analysis*
Introduction
	In a given language, grammatical abstractness and flexibility in one’s speech patterns increases as one gets older, and acquire more knowledge of the language. Therefore, the language is more malleable to adult speakers than to young children. One of the ways of analyzing one’s ability to be creative in the language, therefore showing the mastery of the language, is through their phrasal constructions. By examining the English verb particle construction, (VPC), in early child language, Diessel and Thomasello seek to understand what motivate the ordering of particle and direct object, and when do these changes in ordering occur. 
	Many studies have demonstrated that a variety of linguistic factors influence the facultative placement of the particle. These studies have shown that among the factors, the stress of the personal pronoun, the length or complexity of the direct object, semantic considerations (direction or goal), pragmatic factors (information status), occurrence of an indefinite determiner, and occurrences of stress influence the speaker’s choice in the particle placements. However, no consensus of these literatures has shown the relative strength of the influence of the various factors on the particle placement. Some researchers believe that it is determined primarily by syntactic factors, others, semantic properties, or pragmatic features, though there is not clear definition of independence of one from the others. Therefore, through a multifactorial analysis, Gries (2003) have shown that though not all of these factors have a significant effect on the facultative placement of the particles, an amalgamation of them influences it in adult language. Due to their underdeveloped mastery of the language, studies have found that children tend to place the particle after the object, suggesting that the usage of VPC in early child’s speech deviates from that the adults. Using Gries’ approach to VPC, this study seeks to investigate how children process the factors determining the placement of the particles, and whether they use the placement of the particles productively. 
Methodology
The data used for this analysis is based on the speech of two English-speaking children, aged from 1.6 to 2.3, from CHILDES archives. Through the data, all child utterances were to be noted, including but not limited to VPC which “consists of a transitive verb, a particle and a noun phrase functioning as direct object” (90). Due to their different functions, constructions, the particles are grouped into five classes: (1) transitive verb particle construction (VPC), (2) Intransitive verb particle construction, (3) Fragmented particle construction, and (4) Prepositional construction. 
Data
	Of the five constructions, VPC is attested 22.4%, in 572 instances, most of which occurred after the 2.0 year. Prior to the 2.0 year, a large proportion, 26.7% of the children’s particles were fragmented constructions, while only 10.7% were VPC. After the 2.0 year, the attestation of fragmented constructions decreased, and VPC increased dramatically to 23.8%. Upon close examination of the fragmented constructions shows that they hold similar meaning to the VPC, which alludes that there may be a change in the child’s mastery of the language. 
	The most frequent particles, on, off, and back¸ followed by up, in, away, out, and down are the most frequent, in this order, followed by over and around , for which not many tokens were found. In addition to these particles, the collocation verbs, in the order of frequency, attested are put, and take, followed by turn, blow, get, have push, pick, move, and pull. Of these ten most frequent verbs, put equates to nearly half of the verbs used in VPC. Though these verbs are the most frequent in VPC, they also occur in other grammatical constructions.
Variables
	Prior to the statistical analysis of the data, the utterances were the direct object is omitted are excluded, and the rest were grouped into two types (1) “VPC’s with the particle follows the direct object (V NP P), and (2) VPC’s in which the particle precedes the direct object (V P NP). Confirming previous studies, in 93.5% of the VPC, the particles were attested after the direct object, with only 6.5% of particles attested between verb and direct object, most of which are attested after 2.0 year. Of these occurrences in which the particles deviate from following the direct object, the utterances are coded for the six factors following Gries’ approach. 
	These utterances are coded for length based on the number of words included in the direct object, either 1. one word, 2. two words, 3. three words, and 4. four or more words. The complexity of the objects are coded as 2a. Simple NPs, 2b. Intermadiate NPs, and 2c. Complex NPs based on the use of lexical elements and relative clause. Based on their typical stress features, the utterances are grouped into three types, (1) personal pronouns, (2) all other pronouns, and (3) lexical NPs. Based on the meaning and the idiomatic connotation of the constructions, the utterances are divided into two continuum, (1) with spatial meaning, and (2) with non-spatial meaning. The (in)definite factor was determined by distinguishing the utterances into three levels which includes: (1) definite determiner, (2) indefinite determiner, and (3) no determiner. Since the (in)definite factor is only in regards to pronominal pronouns, non-pronominal pronouns are grouped in the level (3).  And finally, to analyze the influence of the last factor, directional adverbial,  the utterances are grouped into two  levels: one (1) which includes a directional adverbial, and (2) which does not include a directional adverbial.   
Result
	These utterances were analyzed in two steps. First, a chi-square test was used to examine the association between the six different factors. This was followed by a multifactorial analysis through logistic regression to determine the effects of these different factors on facultative placement of the particles. The pre-examination of the data showed no significance difference between the language usage of the two children. 
	The monofactorial analysis of the different factors shows that for length, there is a significant correlation between the length of the construction and the placement of the particles. Longer constructions favors particle preceding the direct object. Though very few complex constructions were attested in the data, the complex constructions also significantly prefer preceding particles. Given that the distribution of other pronouns are similar with both particle preceding and following the direct object, the type analysis also significantly favors preceding particles for lexical nouns. Despite the low frequency of non-spatial usage meanings in constructions, the meaning analysis shows a significant correlation between the meaning and particle positions: non-special particles precede direct objects. Contrarily to the previous outcomes, the (in)definite  and directional adverbial factors do not show a significant association with particle placement. The monofactioral analysis shows that only four of the six factors have a signification association with the particle placements in grammatical constructions. 
	Based on the monofactorial analysis, children’s variation of particle placement correlates with most of the factors affecting the adults’ facultative variation of particle placement. In order to find the most parsimonious set of predictor variables that affect those variations, all the predictor variables were entered in the logistic regression equation. The non-significant factors were removed sequentially, leaving only factors, showing significant association: The type and meaning of the constructions.  Length and complexity are the two follow up factors yielding significant results. 
Discussion (1)
	Overall, this study shows that children’s usage of particle placements correlates to that of adults. Though this children’s usage of the particles is consistent with adults’ usage based on Gries’ (1999) study, children’s usage shows a much higher rate of following particles than found in adults’ language. Amidst the six factors, based on Gries’ approach, that affect adults’ facultative usage of particle placements, only two show significance in children’s language. To answer the question stated at the beginning for the paper, though some consistency is attested between the children’s language and that of the adult, due to the fact that some of them may be stored information, a conclusion can not be drawn. 
Discussion
	While during this analysis of the language usage of the children, this study also offers a view of the change in language acquisition of L1 by children through their surroundings. This study is certainly a good base for how children master certain aspect of the language as they are learning it. Though the data yield to significant result, an increase amount of data may accrue more revealing conclusion. Additionally, how does this become useful in real life?
Reference
Gries, Stefan Th. 1999 Particle placement: A cognitive and functional approach. Cognitive Linguistics. 10, 105_145.




